README.md, before:

Pyladies Command Line Basics & Python Tutorial
=======


# Command line Basics

Tools to use:

* command prompt
* power shell
* Notepad++
* python 2.7
* git bash


### Table of Contents

1. [Intro](shell_tutorial/0001_intro.md)
2. [Filesystem Navigation](shell_tutorial/0002_filesystem_navigation.md)
3. [Directories](shell_tutorial/0003_directories.md)
4. [Files](shell_tutorial/0004_files.md)
5. [More Stuff](shell_tutorial/0005_more_stuff.md)



# Python Intro


TODO -- exercises, scope.
[Python Recap](python_recap.ipynb)



# Further Reading

Software Carpentry -- teaching computer skills to researchers in science, engineering medicine and related disciplines.

* [The Unix Shell](http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/)
* [Programming with Python](http://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-inflammation/)
* [Version Control With Git](http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)


Coder's club -- Writing games in python by Mike Fletcher.

http://cc.vrplumber.com/index.html

Learn Python The Hard Way -- a no-gimmick way of learning a language, that also teaches the fundamental concepts of computer science.

http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/ex0.html

Commit message:

Adding outline for python exercies.

README.md, after:

Pyladies Command Line Basics & Python Tutorial
=======


# Command line Basics

Tools to use:

* command prompt
* power shell
* Notepad++
* python 2.7
* git bash


### Table of Contents

1. [Intro](shell_tutorial/0001_intro.md)
2. [Filesystem Navigation](shell_tutorial/0002_filesystem_navigation.md)
3. [Directories](shell_tutorial/0003_directories.md)
4. [Files](shell_tutorial/0004_files.md)
5. [More Stuff](shell_tutorial/0005_more_stuff.md)



# Python Intro

### Prerequisites

* [Python 2.7 install](shell_tutorial/0006_install_python.md)
* [Notepad++ install](shell_tutorial/0007_install_notepadpp.md)


TODO

1. [REPL, basic types, binary]()
2. [debugging, strings, classes, datetime]()
3. [exercise: days from the begging of the year]()
5. [functions, control flow and dictionaries]()
4. [functions, lists and iteration]()



TODO -- exercises, scope.
[Python Recap](python_recap.ipynb)



# Further Reading

Software Carpentry -- teaching computer skills to researchers in science, engineering medicine and related disciplines.

* [The Unix Shell](http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/)
* [Programming with Python](http://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-inflammation/)
* [Version Control With Git](http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)


Coder's club -- Writing games in python by Mike Fletcher.

http://cc.vrplumber.com/index.html

Learn Python The Hard Way -- a no-gimmick way of learning a language, that also teaches the fundamental concepts of computer science.

http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/ex0.html
